# BIO 462: Computational Cancer Biology

BIO 462 is a class designed to teach students cancer biology and how to use common bioinformatics tools on real cancer datasets. 
We created this module to provide a material for those wishing to teach computational cancer biology or expand their offering of 
bioinformatics topics to undergraduate life science majors. Below are links to the Google Colab notebooks for homework assignments 
1 through 6. Each lesson is designed to contain a week’s worth of instruction material, so the computational exercises in each 
notebook are estimated to take approximately 6 hours. Nevertheless, we invite and encourage educators to adapt the lessons to best 
fit their specific needs. At the beginning of each Colab notebook, we include a section describing the topic and relevant literature 
to be discussed in the classroom. As the module is completely online, it is appropriate for either traditional in-person instruction 
or online courses.

- [Lesson 1: Introduction to Cancer Datasets](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1RV2Sx5cfr9E83afB1eAFiyyo6QF4pEHZ?usp=sharing)
    - Teaches students basic Python Pandas and cptac package functions used to analyze real cancer data presented in Pandas data frames.
      Introduces students to a few of the cancer datasets available in the Python cptac package.


- [Lesson 2: Missense Mutation](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1-9eDUJhc1vLADDgxRick16GtjmSIEu45?usp=sharing)
    - Teaches students how to identify and interpret missense mutations within the cancer datasets. 
      Introduces UniProt data using the UniProt API access.


- [Lesson 3: Truncation Mutation](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1Awq1A5wZV2hEEevCA2phN7NnZnPMiS5X?usp=sharing)
    - Teaches students some analysis techniques for identifying mutations in genes and how those can lead to truncated proteins.
      Introduces Mutplot lollipop plots as visualization of several truncating mutations. 


- [Lesson 4: Copy Number Variation](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1pYGj0MWivX3mevUIZR-a2Sock0fyV4xN?usp=sharing)
    - Teaches students the difference between focal- and arm-level CNV events and how they affect individuals vs populations.
      Introduces line plots as a visualization of the data. 


- [Lesson 5: mRNA/Transcriptomics](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1rfu1Kp8zJfA2rY-65WK1P3HEDkkLKbvu?usp=sharing)
    - Teaches students how to identify differential mRNA abundances through t-testing using a wrap t-test cptac function along with 
      teaching how to perform a pathway enrichment analysis on mRNA and transcriptomics data through GSEA/Enrichr and g:Profiler.
      Describes the protocols for each analysis.
      

- [Lesson 6: Proteomics](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1qpKBlQ2iPhi6XfoJV2avK4f8CaXn5Nnm?usp=sharing)
    - Teaches students how to identify differential proteins through t-testing along with how to identify significantly correlated 
      proteins using correlation networks and Pandas correlation functions.
